A Brief history of me.
======================

My current CV
-------------

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1e2MloIPjRZi5DyREjXShIzjBxng0D7ufgZF9-TczcWM/view

An old personal statement
-------------------------

15th September 2002

I have been working for an ISP since 1996, and have gained substantial IP
Networking knowledge. About 3 years ago I decided that I wanted to train up to
get my CCIE, and started saving. I told my boss this in an annual review and he
said "Don't worry about saving - if we can get the rest of the team trained up
to cover in your absence the company will pay for the training." Great I
thought. And promptly spent what I had saved, and made plans for a couple of
the guys working under me to attend courses to get them to CCNA level. I was
offered the opportunity of taking part in this training myself, but I said "Let
one of the other guys go, they have more to learn than I do". Months passed,
and slowly the team gained a couple of CCNAs, and I was ready to ask for
training myself. "Sorry Russell. There's just nothing left in the training
budget." OK, I thought. I just have to wait out the current industry slump,
when things pick up so will the budget. In the time that has passed I have
gained a wife and small son, and my disposable income has grown much smaller.
Things go well at work, I am working my way up the Network Engineering
Hierarchy, working as a senior integration engineer on a project to create a
single IP backbone for the dozen or so ISP / OLOs that make up the company I
work for. Then disaster strikes. The share price is plummeting, the board are
panicking. "The European side of our network is losing too much money. Sell it
off to recoup the losses". "What about the staff working on the integration?".
"Acceptable losses." And so I am made redundant.

And so I find myself on the job market at a time when the industry is in a
slump. Every job that is advertised attracts dozens of applicants. How do the
employers weed out the CVs? Well they start by throwing out those without
certification. Meaning my 5+ years of experience cannot even get me an
interview - the fact that I have been working as an equal peer with CCIE
engineers for the past 2 years at least is not even noticed.

What are my options? 1) Wait for a job to turn up. This is how I start. I send
out more and more applications, but barely a sound on the interview front. OK,
what next... 2) Apply for more junior positions, get my foot in the door with a
company with good future prospects, and start in a lower position with a view
to moving back up the career ladder once the slump has passed. More success,
several interviews. Problem is that companies see me as overqualified... "He
was earning double this salary 6 months ago, surely he won't stick with us for
long" Never mind the fact that they will have a requirement for Network
professionals once the slump has past, and it's much easier to recruit from
inside the company.

And so to option 3) Make a start on my certification myself. I cannot really
afford to pay for 3rd party CCIE training on the paltry amount that the
government gives me while I'm unemployed. But waiting for someone to pay for my
training for me has got me nowhere so far, so it's time to take things into my
own hands like I should have done in the first place. And so I am now committed
to building my knowledge to a level suitable for passing the CCIE Routing and
Switching Exam. This should be enough to get me considered for networking roles
again, and when in full time work I can work on my Lab preparation.
